Update handbook for 1.31 (#2544)
kubernetes/sig-release: release-team/role-handbooks/communications/README.md

### Collect Major Themes

A GitHub Discussion must be open to invite all SIG leads and members to add Major Themes for inclusion in the Release Blog and Release Notes. The discussion must be opened in kubernetes/sig-release under General Category. Past discussions: [1.31](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/discussions/2526), [1.25](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/pull/1987), [1.24](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/discussions/1868), [1.23](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/discussions/1709), [1.22](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/discussions/1575), [1.21](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/discussions/1436). 

Reach out to each SIG in their slack channels and  #chairs-and-techleads channel to bring attention to the Major Themes discussion around Enhancements Freeze. To help coordinate outreach to all the SIGs, you can use a issue in the kubernetes/sig-release repe. Past issues: [1.31](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/issues/2527). In the case of a low reponse rate in the Github discussion, do a round of reminders in Slack about 2 weeks before the Major Themes deadline.

> The Communications team should hold a meeting to discuss Major Themes sometime around Code Freeze. Ensure that at least one person from the Release Notes team attends this meeting with the Release Lead and Enhancements Lead. It may be easier to ask for Release Lead and Enhancements Lead to stay after a Release Team Meeting to discuss Major Themes than scheduling a separate meeting. 

Reviewer: Nit: `Major Themes` -> `Release Highlights`

Reviewer: Resolved!

### Collect Major Themes

A GitHub Discussion must be open to invite all SIG leads and members to add Major Themes for inclusion in the Release Blog and Release Notes. The discussion must be opened in kubernetes/sig-release under General Category. Past discussions: [1.31](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/discussions/2526), [1.25](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/pull/1987), [1.24](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/discussions/1868), [1.23](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/discussions/1709), [1.22](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/discussions/1575), [1.21](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/discussions/1436). 

> Reach out to each SIG in their slack channels and  #chairs-and-techleads channel to bring attention to the Major Themes discussion around Enhancements Freeze. To help coordinate outreach to all the SIGs, you can use a issue in the kubernetes/sig-release repe. Past issues: [1.31](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/issues/2527). In the case of a low reponse rate in the Github discussion, do a round of reminders in Slack about 2 weeks before the Major Themes deadline.

Reviewer: What if we designated one of the release meetings (2 weeks from Major theme deadline) to have a small round table where we would define Major Themes? A bit like how it happened with this release.

I think making it an official appointment would be the best way to handle it, wdyt?

Reviewer 2: We're making changes to the major themes process. I'm opening a separate PR for that.

The Communications team should hold a meeting to discuss Release Highlights sometime around Code Freeze. Ensure that at least one person from the Release Notes team attends this meeting with the Release Lead and Enhancements Lead.

### Release blog

The Communications Coordinator along with the Comms shadows are responsible for authoring the official Kubernetes Release blog. This blog is the official statement of release. The release blog is the primary vehicle by which the release team communicates the release highlights, known issues, and other aspects of the release to the community. 

Start the draft with the team around week 12, striking a balance between the enhancements being close to finalized and having enough to time author the blog and have it reviewed. Ahead of review, open a pull request on the [website repository](https://github.com/kubernetes/website) and assign the release lead and other stakeholders as reviewers.

> It's up to you and your team regarding how best to do this. Typically it works well to assign sections to different team members and have the lead pull it all together and manage the PR and reviews. You can work in a draft in Google Docs or Hackmd, then move into the PR when content is more finalized. Its also recommended to get KEP authors to provide 1-2 paragraph desciption of KEP changes as a starting point for the release blog. This is an easier starting point for putting the whoe release blog together. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's up to you and your team regarding how best to do this. Typically it works well to assign sections to different team members and have the lead pull it all together and manage the PR and reviews. You can work in a draft in Google Docs or Hackmd, then move into the PR when content is more finalized. Its also recommended to get KEP authors to provide 1-2 paragraph descriptions of KEP changes as a starting point for the release blog. This is an easier starting point for putting the whole release blog together. 
```

To opt-in, let us know and open a Feature Blog placeholder PR against the [website repository](https://github.com/kubernetes/website) by **[BLOG PLACEHOLDER PR DEADLINE]**. For more information about writing a blog see the [blog contribution guidelines](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/new-content/blogs-case-studies/#technical-considerations-for-submitting-a-blog-post).

Note: In your placeholder PR, use `XX` characters for the blog `date` in the front matter and file name. We will work with you on updating the PR with the publication date once we have a final number of feature blogs for this release.
```

NOT EVERY KEP NEEDS A BLOG. Work with the KEP owners, Release Lead, and SIG Docs Blog team (though #sig-dcos-blog slack channel) to make sure all KEPs that opt-in really need a blog written. If a feature is small, or new in Alpha it may not be ready for a blog. You should also encourage important features to sign up to write a blog. 

> **As feature blogs are opted in and placeholder PRs are created**, assign the blogs to shadows and yourself for tracking and facilitation. The Comms team is responsible for making sure blog authors have the resources and information they need to write the blog, and tracking the blogs progress through editorial and tech reviews once the blog is ready. 

Reviewer: To this paragraph 

```As feature blogs are opted in and placeholder PRs are created**, assign the blogs to shadows and yourself for tracking and facilitation. The Comms team is responsible for making sure blog authors have the resources and information they need to write the blog, and tracking the blogs progress through editorial and tech reviews once the blog is ready.```

I would add 

```After placeholder PR is created, any further reach out to authors via GitHub should be done on the placeholder PR instead of the original KEP issue.```

This comment I added aims to avoid confusion and clutter on the original KEP issue.
The most effective reachouts are still Slack DMs but I think it's still valid to have track of them on the blog PR itself.

**Communicate the planned publish date to SIG Docs and the owner of the feature blog**. Notify the author in the PR and Slack channels: `#sig-docs-blog`, `#sig-docs` about the schedule. The communications team will assist in coordinating and publishing the feature blogs on schedule.
> See example [here](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/41924), "this article is scheduled for the 21th of August".

Please note that the release team will support the blog publication after the release day too. 

#### Feature blog reviews

Also see the docs for [pull requests review process](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/review/reviewing-prs/) and [reviewing a pull request](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/review/for-approvers/#reviewing-a-pr).

**Work closely with the [SIG Docs Blogs](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-docs/blog-subproject) team.** These are the folks responsible for editorial reviews (and sometimes tech reviews) of Kubernetes blogs. The Comms lead should plan to regulary share updates on blog status and review timelines with the blog reviewers via `#sig-docs-blogs` and during sig-docs meetings. 

> 

Reviewer: To this paragraph:
```The Comms lead should plan to regulary share updates on blog status and review timelines with the blog reviewers via `#sig-docs-blogs` and during sig-docs meetings.```

I would add:
```For further aid you can contact the weekly PR wrangler, see the [PR wrangler schedule](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/wiki/PR-Wranglers) for more details.```

Author: added!

> **Work closely with the [SIG Docs Blogs](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-docs/blog-subproject) team.** These are the folks responsible for editorial reviews (and sometimes tech reviews) of Kubernetes blogs. The Comms lead should plan to regulary share updates on blog status and review timelines with the blog reviewers via `#sig-docs-blogs` and during sig-docs meetings.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Work closely with the [SIG Docs Blogs](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-docs/blog-subproject) team.** These are the folks responsible for editorial reviews (and sometimes tech reviews) of Kubernetes blogs. The Comms lead should plan to regularly share updates on blog status and review timelines with the blog reviewers via `#sig-docs-blogs` and during sig-docs meetings.  
```

Tracking, facilitating, and organizing the publication of the Feature Blog series is a major deliverable of the Comms team. Feature blogs are opt-in for SIGs, and are authored by enhancement developers and others close to the features. We do, however, need to encourage owners of important enhancements to opt in to writing feature blogs. Examples of enhancements that warrant a feature blog might include: breaking changes, features and changes important to our users, features that have been in progress for a long time and are graduating, and features that are considered mandatory by the Release Lead. It helps to work closely with the Release Lead and use the respective SIG Slack channels to remind the SIGs about opting in to feature blogs and provide any necessary context to blog authors. 

> **Reach out in KEP issues to ask for feature blog opt-in.** Ask every KEP owner if they want to contribute a blog by reaching out in the KEP issue. Example messaging is below.

Reviewer: I would add a general guideline for reachouts to KEP owners, along these lines:

In case a KEP owner is not being responsive on their GitHub issue (this might be about opt-in, placeholder or addressing review comments), especially near deadlines, it is advised to write a message on the assigned SIG Slack channel possibly quoting the author, whos nickname on Slack would most probably be aligned with the GitHub one.

Do not be afraid of sending a private message too! Many people are in multiple sig channels and they could lose a message or two, but a DM works in the majority of the cases.

In the rare case your messages are not answered within a reasonable amount of time (24-48 hours around deadlnes) you can send an email to the specific mailing list of the sig, consulting with your Comms Lead.

_this last part was suggested by Kat during one of the meetings, I would say it's a last resort but a very powerful one_

Reviewer: Resolved!

```
👋 from the v1.31 Communications Team!
We'd love for you to consider writing a feature blog about your enhancement! Some reasons why you might want to write a blog for this feature include (but are not limited to) if this introduces breaking changes, is important to our users, or has been in progress for a long time and is graduating.  

To opt-in, let us know and open a Feature Blog placeholder PR against the [website repository](https://github.com/kubernetes/website) by **[BLOG PLACEHOLDER PR DEADLINE]**. For more information about writing a blog see the [blog contribution guidelines](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/new-content/blogs-case-studies/#technical-considerations-for-submitting-a-blog-post).

> Note: In your placeholder PR, use `XX` characters for the blog `date` in the front matter and file name. We will work with you on updating the PR with the publication date once we have a final number of feature blogs for this release.```

Reviewer: I would add a note along these lines:

After a PR placeholder is in place, you should comment and reach out on that one instead of the original KEP issue.
When reminding to a KEP owner their ready-for-review deadline, you can also add a link to the style-guide ([link](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/)), to encourage more effective writing from the start, which means less time to review the blogs!

Reviewer: Resolved!

Note that not every KEP needs a blog. Work with the KEP owners, Release Lead, and SIG Docs Blog team (though #sig-dcos-blog slack channel) to make sure all KEPs that opt-in really need a blog written. Alternatives for writing a full blog are including the KEP as a Major Theme, a smaller mention in release announcement

> **As feature blogs are opted in and placeholder PRs are created**, assign the blogs to shadows and yourself for tracking and facilitation. The responsibility is to ensure the blog authors have the resources and information they need, including editorial and tech reviews once ready.

Reviewer: I would add a note to ensure smooth communication with #sig-docs-blogs on Slack, along these lines:

In case the blog you are trackings needs a technical review - we recommend each blog has passed at least a technical review stage - you should contact the specific SIG about it, possibly adding a tag to the author as well.

In case the blog tracked is instead in need of a content, format and style review you should write a message on #sig-docs-blogs asking if someone in the team has bandwidth to help out with such review, possibly tagging the current PR wrangler (see [PR wrangler schedule](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/wiki/PR-Wranglers)).

Note: Comms shadows are welcome to add an informal LGTM message if they feel confident enough to review the blog and if they didn't find any major blockers or nits to fix. The last approval of the PR is still a responsibility of blog approvers but they don't mind if you help out!

Reviewer: Resolved!

For tech reviews, reach out to authors and the sponsoring SIG to organize at least one tech review per blog post.

**The first feature blog** typically goes out on release day alongside or shortly after the release blog, and then are published one-at-a-time, typically at a rate of two to three posts weekly. **The Comms team establishes the publication schedule.**
> Note that blog PRs in k/website are dated, and automation will publish future-dated entries. This enables a PR process decoupled from blog publication date.

**Communicate the planned publish date to SIG Docs and the owner of the feature blog**. 

> Notify the author in the PR and Slack channels: `#sig-docs-blog`, `#sig-docs`. The communications team will assist in coordinating and publishing the feature blogs on schedule.
> See example [here](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/41924), "this article is scheduled for the 21th of August". 

**Work with SIG Contributor Experience** (connecting on `#sig-contribex` and by attending meetings), to promote the feature blogs. 

The suggested deadlines to be supported by the current Comms team:

> - Deadline - PRs blog place holder: Week 09

Reviewer: - Deadline - Blog opt-in: Week 06

_This is just my guess for the opt-in deadline but I think it's good enough to both leave room to KEP owners to think about it and for Comms people to reach out to all the KEPs_

Reviewer: Resolved!

### Tips and best practices

#### Use the 2 week rule

Try to give 2 weeks notice for all deadlines and requests for reviews. When planning to reach out for blog opt-in or asking for reviews on blog drafts, you should start posting messages or have blog drafts ready for review at least two weeks from the deadline. Especially when asking for blog reviews, as the blog team is understaffed, this will give reviewers enough time to do the review and you enough time to address any feedback. This is best effort, as the schedule does not always allow for this much lead time before a deadline.

#### Reaching out to KEP owners, blog authors, and reviewers

Post messages to GitHub or in SIG slack channels for the best visibility into ongoing work and to allow other contributors to help. Having messages in the KEPs, blog PRs, or SIG slack channels, can help centralize information about the work being done and any outstanding issues. If you need to escalate an issues to Release Leads or SIG Chairs, having public messages/records of conversations can make it easy to tag who you need to. 

> If you do use direct messages to contact someone during a release,  if you have been unable to get ahold of them through other public channels for example, post summaries of the conversation to PRs or SIG slack channels. This way everyone can stay up-to-date on the ongoing work.

Reviewer: Nit: extra space not required

`release,  if` -> `release, if`

Reviewer: Resolved!
